---
priority: 0.6
title: Milestone 3
excerpt: Maze Traversing 
categories: milestones
background-image: lab1-cover.png

---

### Objective
The purpose of this milestone was to create improve our robot's right-hand wall following algorithm to some sort of an algorithm that allows it to more effciently and quickly explore a maze. By the completion of this milestone, our robot explored a maze by prioriting intersections that it hadn't visited before, and visiting those intersections. However, we have written a DFS algorithm (that we are currently implementing on our robot) and will document its progress here.

### Design
After deciding that we wanted to implement a DFS algorithm for our robot, we broke down the creation of the algorithm into intermediate steps to ensure that our robot would have some sort of working, optimized algorithm in the following order:

1) Turn-by-turn with wall avoidance (completed)

2) Turn-by-turn with wall avoidance and priority on unvisited neighboring locations (completed)

3) DFS through a maze with no walls (completed)

4) Full DFS with wall avoidance (work in progress)

Each of our newer algorithms built off of the previous.

### Implementation
We broke down the creation of our algorithm(s) into two steps: 1) writing an improved maze exploration algorithm and 2) testing the algorithm on our robot and updating the maze map GUI on the base station.

Note: our latest software works such that our robot can only check for walls and make decisions about movement at an intersection. All of our maze-solving algorithms were written with this understanding.

#### Maze Exploration

###### First Algorithm: Turn-By-Turn with Wall Avoidance

Similar to our right-hand wall following algorithm (from Lab 3) is a maze traversal with wall avoidance. With this algorithm, the robot moves forward at every intersection until it sees a wall in front of it. It then checks for a wall to the left of itself (turns left if there is none), then to the right of itself (turns right if there is none). If it detects a wall in front of, to the left of, and to the right of itself, the robot turns around 180 degrees.

Example:

Pros:
- A start to our second maze algorithm.

Cons:
- Can get stuck in many maze configurations.

###### Second Algorithm: Turn-By-Turn with Wall Avoidance and Priority on Unvisited Neighbors


#### Testing on Robot and Updating the GUI

### DFS Algorithm (In Progress)

### Ideas For Future Improvements
